A regular equation is a numerical expression that is either true or false. Let's look at the expressions:

$$
2=2 \quad(\mathrm{T})
$$
$$
2=3 \quad(\mathrm{F})
$$

Here the judgements are clear. The first expression is true (T) and the second is false (F) (see [[Logic]]).

The purpose of equations is to figure out which *coefficients* make the equation true. The collection of solutions is called the *set of solutions* to the equation.
# Types of equations
## Linear equations
Linear equations have the standard form:
$$a_1x_1+\cdots+a_nx_n+b=0$$
Where $x_1,...,x_n$ are the unknown variables and $a_1,...,a_n, b$ are the coefficients.
## Quadratic equations
Quadratic equations have the standard form:
$$
a x^2+b x+c=0,
$$
Where $x$ is the unknown variable, and $a, b$, and $c$ are the coefficients, where $a \neq 0$. (If $a=0$ and $b \neq 0$ then the equation is linear, not quadratic.)

## Exponential equations
Exponential equations have the standard form:
$$
a^x=b
$$
Where $x$ is the unknown variable, and $a$ and $b$ are the coefficients.

# Solving systems of equations
A system of equations is a collection of linear equations involving the same variables. An example of a system of equations is:
$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l}
& 2 x+3 y=8 \\
& 2 x-4 y=-6
\end{array}\right.
$$
This is a system with two equations and two unknown variables ($x$ and $y$).
## Substitution
The substitution method is a way to solve a system of equations with two equations and two unknown variables. The method has three parts:
1. Solve an unknown variable in one equation by isolating it on one side of the equation.
2. Insert the solution to the solved variable into the other equation to find the solution to the second variable.

### Example
$$
\begin{array}{ll}
2 x+3 y=8 & (*) \\
2 x-4 y=-6 & (* *)
\end{array}
$$
First, isolate $x$ in $(* *)$.
$$
\begin{aligned}
& 2 x-4 y=-6 \\
\Leftrightarrow & 2 x=4 y-6 \\
\Leftrightarrow & x=2 y-3
\end{aligned}
$$
Then we insert this expression into $\left(^*\right)$
$$
\begin{array}{ll} 
& 2(2 y-3)+3 y=8 \\
\Leftrightarrow & 4 y-6+3 y=8 \\
\Leftrightarrow & 7 y=14 \\
\Leftrightarrow & y=2
\end{array}
$$
We now know that $\mathrm{y}=2$.

Since $x=2 y-3$, we can see that $x=2 \cdot 2-3=1$.

The set of solutions to the system is thus $\{(x, y)\}=\{(1,2)\}$.

# Solving quadratic equations
If we look at the equation:
$$
x^2=49 \quad(*)
$$
we can observe that this equation has two solutions, since both $x=7$ and $x=-7$ make $(*)$ true.
$$
7{ }^2=49
\land -7{ }^2=49\quad(T)
$$
If the equation is in the form:
$$
x^2=-49 \quad(* *)
$$
we can't find any solutions in $\mathbb{R}$, since the left hand side  in $(* *)$ must never be negative.

## General solution
A general quadratic equation can be written as:
$$
a x^2+b x+c=0, \quad(a \neq 0)
$$
and we define the *discriminant* $d=b^2-4 a c$. We can solve the quadratic equation in the following way:
$$
a x^2+b x+c=0
$$
If $d>0$, the equation has two solutions
$$
x=\frac{-b+\sqrt{d}}{2 a} \lor x=\frac{-b-\sqrt{d}}{2 a}
$$
If $d=0$, the equation has one solution
$$
x=\frac{-b}{2 a}
$$
If $d<0$, the equation has no solutions.

# Zero-product property
$$
\begin{aligned}
& p \cdot q=0 \\
\Leftrightarrow & p=0 \lor q=0
\end{aligned}
$$
# Exponential equations
If we have an equation in the form:
$$
a^x=b
$$
We can solve for $x$ by taking the logarithm by both sides:
$$
\log \left(a^x\right)=\log (b)
$$
Thus we get:
$$
x \log (a)=\log (b) \Leftrightarrow x=\frac{\log (b)}{\log (a)}
$$
# Inequalities
Inequalities are expressions that, like equations, are either *true* or *false*. If we look at these inequalities:
$$
2<3 \quad \text{(T)}
$$
$$
2>3 \quad \text{(F)}
$$
The type of inequalities we deal with are open statements that include one (or more) unknowns.

When solving inequalities, we use the following basic rules:
1. We can add a number or subtract a number from both sides of the inequality sign.
2. We can multiply or divide by a positive number on both sides of the inequality sign.
3. We can multiply or divide by a negative number on both sides of the inequality sign when we simultaneously reverse the inequality sign.